# Beyond WWDC
## If you've shared or considered sharing your coding knowledge and enthusiasm for computer science with others, let us know in 500 words or less.

I am a member, active contributor, and former Vice President of a student organization/club at my university called Mason SRCT (Student-Run Computing and Technology), which builds various open-source projects for the benefit of our university’s community, while also aiming to give students a place to learn more about real-world software engineering through working together and contributing towards those projects. Since 2016, I have been active in helping new students get involved in contributing to open-source projects through both one-on-one mentor sessions and bigger picture talks to help familiarize students with not just our projects, but the various design patterns used when dealing with every part of the software stack. At our club’s meetings in particular, I have mentored students on new technologies like Swift and Docker, software engineering concepts like version control, and collaboration workflows including managing issues, releases, and deployment.

In order to expose students to these various technologies and concepts, our club produces many open source software projects. I have worked to ship our first iOS project, a client for an API we serve with facility hours on campus, With this project, I have been able to introduce a new paradigm—mobile development—to the organization which up until then was focused primarily on web and server based projects. I gave a talk explaining the fundamentals of how the app works and have worked with students one-on-one to help them get started with Swift and Cocoa Touch and to make their first open source contribution.

In addition to the club’s meeting and projects, I have worked with the club to plan and mentor for events held throughout the school year. These include Open Source Day, where we give students a crash course on open source philosophies and how to take part in projects big and small, and CryptoParty, where I’ve taught students encryption concepts so they can both stay secure and better understand how the algorithms behind encryption work under the hood. I think these events are a great way to give a lot of students, more than a one-on-one mentorship can help, a way to get a good high level overview of bigger topics, especially for students newer to computer science. This student-to-student teaching is incredibly valuable, providing a new perspective on subjects and allowing for different technologies to be utilized as opposed to the classroom, and I look forward to continuing to guide students through this kind of teaching in the future.